Rest API's 
===========
REST means REpresentational State Transfer.

API means Application Programming Interface.

REST is a architectural style which defines set of constraints that used to develop web services.

REST API is a way of accessing webservices in a simple and flexible manner without having any processing.

API which fallows REST standards is called restfull API.

RESTful API is an interface where two systems can exchange the information over the network securly.

All the communication we can perform by using HTTP request.

Diagram: REST-API

We have following list of HTTP methods to make a REST API call.


Method			Description
-------			------------
GET			It is used to read the resources

POST			It is used to create the resources

PUT			It is used to update the existing resources.

DELETE			IT is used to delete the resources.


We have following REST annotation.

1) @RestControlling 

2) @GetMapping 

3) @PostMapping

4) @PutMapping 

5) @DeleteMapping 


We have four types of REST API's.

1) Public/Open API:

2) Partner API 

3) Private API 

4) Composite API 



AWS
====


Q) Types of applications ?

We have two types of applications.

1) Client based application 

2) Web based application 

1) Client based application
----------------------------
Application which is running in a user's computer is called client based application.

In general, An application which need to be installed in a user's computer is called client based application.

Client based application can be used by perticular user.

All client based applications are ruled out.

ex:
	VLC Media palyer 


2) Web based application 
-------------------------
An application which can be access from anywhere over the network is called web based application.

ex:
	Flipkart 
	Amazon 


Q) Who can we develop an application which can be accessible by thousands and lakhs of users?

First a software developer need to develop an application.

Later that application need to be host on the top of the server.	

Diagram: aws1.1



Q) What is the difference between PC and server?

PC						Server
------						--------
A personal computer is designed for 		A server is designed to operate multiple users.
perticular user.

It contains less storage from gigabyte to 	It contains high storage from terabytes to 
terabytes.					petabytes.

It contains simple structure.			It contains complex structure.

Low network capability.				High network capability.

It contains single processor.			It contains multiple processors.


Q)Will company use one server or multiple servers?

Depends upon the scale of the company they will use the servers.


In short,companies revenue is completely rely on performance and availability of these machines(servers).So company need to ensure that servers are operating all the time.


To build an application on the top of the servers we need organize the infrastructure.

Each and every IT company will have their own data center.

A data center is a place where we host our servers.

Diagram: aws1.2

Maintaining a data center is a very big deal.

1. Required private and secure place
2. Server maintainence team (database admin,network admin,monitoring team and etc). 
3. 24/7 we need to maintain temperature 16 to 19 degree celsius. 
4. 24/7 Dual power supply  (government and private power supplier)
5. 24/7 Dual Network (ISP)
6. Need to follow geographical orders/standards to protect customer data which 
   contains physical security and network security.
7. Hardware Refresh 
 

Q)Do you think is it easy to organize data center?

No, it is not easy to organize the data center.

Specially startup's can't be proceeded because data center is a capital intensive.

If we see, From 2009 to 2022 number of IT companies are drastically increases 
due to cloud.



Q)What is Cloud computing ?

Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go model. 

Example:
	Assume that my business is a e-commerce.
	During christmas or festival time I need thousands of servers and 
	those servers i am using only for limited days.


	Q)Do you think it is wise to buy thousands of servers only for limited days 
	and keeping them ideal for rest of the days? 

	OR 

	Q)I can lease them for few days and return them once it is done?

	answer : lease . 

	That's where cloud providers came into the picture.
	ex:
		Amazon
		Microsoft
		IBM
		Google
		Alibaba
		and etc.

In 2002,2003 , Amazon they starting their e-commerce , keeping the future demands in mind they got extends amount of hardware and their calculation absolute went wrong.

Whatever the forecasting they have done with respective to utilization it really went bad and they felt that only 20% to 30% of servers they are using.Almost 70% of their prediction went wrong and they left with no choice.

One of the intern of amazon got an idea , why don't we give our excess amount of server on lease for the people who want.In that way idea of cloud came to a picture.
ex:
	AWS
	Azure
	GCP
	alibaba cloud
	IBM cloud

Diagram: aws1.3

In 2004 the concept of cloud started.


Q)What is AWS?

AWS stands for Amazon Web Services.

It offers infrastructure as a service.

From 2004 to 2014 they are monopoly in industry.

AWS was a leader for almost 10 years.

Almost 75% to 80% of market occupied by AWS i.e Out of 100 , 75 to 80 customers are aws customers. 

It is one of the leading cloud service provider accross the world.

In 2014 , microsoft Azure came in to a picture.


Q)Why to choose AWS?

AWS is been for industry more then a decade.Hence majority of the customers on Amazon cloud and learning AWS is ensure that you will get secure job.







